# Appendix P Emergency Responder Radio Coverage

The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless specifically referenced in the local adopting ordinance.

- Whenever anexistingwired communicationsystemcannot be repaired or is being replaced, or where notapproved.
- Within a time frame established by the adopting authority.Exception:Where it is determined by thefire code officialthat the radio coveragesystemis not needed.

Exception:Where it is determined by thefire code officialthat the radio coveragesystemis not needed.

Exceptions:Whereapprovedby thebuilding officialand thefire code official, a wired communicationsystemin accordance withSection 907.2.12.2shall be permitted to be installed or maintained in lieu of anapprovedradio coveragesystem.Where it is determined by thefire code officialthat the radio coveragesystemis not needed.Infacilitieswhere emergency responder radio coverage is required and suchsystems, components, or equipment required could have a negative impact on the normal operations of thatfacility, thefire code officialshall have the authority to accept an automatically activated emergency responder radio coveragesystem.Where it is determined to be unreasonably burdensome to implement anapprovedradio coveragesystem.

- Whereapprovedby thebuilding officialand thefire code official, a wired communicationsystemin accordance withSection 907.2.12.2shall be permitted to be installed or maintained in lieu of anapprovedradio coveragesystem.
- Where it is determined by thefire code officialthat the radio coveragesystemis not needed.
- Infacilitieswhere emergency responder radio coverage is required and suchsystems, components, or equipment required could have a negative impact on the normal operations of thatfacility, thefire code officialshall have the authority to accept an automatically activated emergency responder radio coveragesystem.
- Where it is determined to be unreasonably burdensome to implement anapprovedradio coveragesystem.

- All in-building coveragesystemcomponents shall be contained in a National Electrical Manufacturer's Association (NEMA) 4-type waterproof cabinet.
- Batterysystemsused for the emergency power source shall be contained in a NEMA 4-type waterproof cabinet.
- The in-building coveragesystemandbattery systemshall be electrically supervised and monitored by asupervisory service, or whenapprovedby thefire code official, shall sound an audible signal at aconstantly attended location.
- Equipment shall have FCC certification prior to installation.

- Certification of in-buildingsystemtraining issued by a nationally recognized organization or school.
- A certificate issued by the manufacturer of the equipment being installed.

These qualifications shall not be required where demonstration of adequate skills and experience satisfactory to thefire code officialis provided.

- Each floor of the building shall be divided into a grid of 20 approximately equal test areas.
- The test shall be conducted using a calibrated handheld or hip-worn device of the latest brand and model used by theagencytalking through theagency's radio communicationssystem.
- Failure of a maximum of two nonadjacent test areas shall not result in failure of the test.
- In the event that three of the test areas fail the test, in order to be more statistically accurate, the floor shall be permitted to be divided into 40 equal test areas. Failure of a maximum of four nonadjacent test areas shall not result in failure of the test. If thesystemfails the 40-area test, thesystemshall be altered to meet the 95 percent coverage requirement.
- A test location approximately in the center of each test area shall be selected for the test, with the radio enabled to verify two-way communications to and from the outside of the building through the publicagency's radio communicationssystem. Once the test location has been selected, that location shall represent the entire test area. Failure in the selected test location shall be considered failure of that test area. Additional test locations shall not be permitted.
- The gain values of all amplifiers, if applicable, shall be measured, and the test measurement results shall be kept on file with the buildingownerso that the measurements can be verified during annual tests. In the event that the measurement results become lost, the buildingownershall be required to rerun the acceptance test to reestablish the gain values.
- As part of the installation, a spectrum analyzer or other suitable test equipment shall be utilized to ensure spurious oscillations are not being generated by the subject in-building coveragesystem. This test shall be conducted at time of installation and subsequent annual inspections.
- A test shall be considered a "failure" when a transmission from the test device within the building fails to deliver intelligible audio or data to the appropriate public safety dispatch center or equivalent as would be expected during normal operation; and/or when a transmission from a public safety dispatch center or equivalent fails to deliver intelligible audio or data to the test device within the building as would be expected during normal operation.

(Note:Section P105.4 does not exist due to a numbering error in the MN Rule.)

- In-building coverage test as described inSection P105.3.
- Signal boosters in-building coveragesystemsshall be tested to ensure that the gain is the same as it was upon initial installation and acceptance.
- Backup batteries and power supplies shall be tested under load of a period of one hour to verify that they will properly operate during an actual power outage. If, within the one-hour test period, the battery exhibits symptoms of failure, the test shall be extended for additional one-hour periods until the integrity of the battery can be determined.
- All other active components shall be checked to verify operation within the manufacturer's specifications.
- At the conclusion of the testing, a report, which shall verify compliance withSection P105.3, shall be submitted to thefire code official.

